Okay, so he took you out to Watts. He showed me the
condition and hired me, and it just was a miracle
for me, because suddenly I have something to do. I
can go out to clear slums,
and put the zeal I would have put into the Methodist
ministry into slum clearance. You can act on
Christianity in a sound sound. Oh, absolutely.
Monsignor O'Dwyer was really a practicing
Christian. So was my father. But my father was
ignorant. He didn't know the real world. O'Dwyer,
through his charities, knew Los Angeles. Within
three years, we had a housing authority
established. We got the first projects built.
And then the housing authority segregated them.
one black, one brown, one white. This is 1942.
There was no direction from the Supreme Court on
the Constitutional question. That didn't come
until 54. Even the Restrictive Covenant case
didn't come down until 47. And O'Dwyer and I talked
it over and felt it was just morally wrong for the
projects to be segregated. And with the head of the
League of Wimbledon, some liberal architects,
and for the first time in our lives we set up a little
picket line in front of the Housing Authority
demanding that it integrate before it occupied.
And within a few days the Housing Authority gave in
and agreed and came out to the sidewalk where we
were standing and in very mean words racist words,
said they were going to integrate, and turned to
O'Dwyer and said, who do you want to manage it? And
O'Dwyer said, let's try Frank. So at the age of 28,
from the picket line, I'm brought inside to become
the manager of the first integrated housing
project west of the Mississippi. And this whole
thing that relates to the fact that it was that
month, the first page, that we now have from the
FBI. The first surveillance on me was a memorandum
written by J. Edgar Hoover in 1942, deterring me to
be a potential security risk. And from then on
until 1980, everything in my life was
orchestrated by the FBI, and I never knew it.
That's a turning point in this whole thing. Maybe
that's enough for you. No, I want to continue,
unless you're too tired. I want to continue. I
just... Do you want to take a break for a minute? No,
I have the water. Okay. Would you... Times a
quarter to three? I'd rather get it done with.
Yeah, I'd like to... And rest my voice before I talk
tonight. Yeah. Now, in Los Angeles, and in Watts,
this Housing Council of Los Angeles, is this
funded
by public, private, or a combination of public and
private funds? The Housing Council under
Monsignor O'Dwyer was a private citizen group.
Yeah, that's what I thought. The Housing
Authority of the City of L.A. was set up by the
federal government and state governments. It's a
quasi-state corporation. Yeah. The funding came
from the Wagner-Steagall Act of 1937,
and from the Taft-Eleanor-Wagner
bill of 1949. Let
me just respond to questions. You wouldn't know
any of this background, and you couldn't have
questioned me on it, but now you know where I'm at.
Yeah. You know the record a little bit from these
other things. Yeah. Just let me respond to
whatever you want. Okay, well, I want you to
explain how well integrated housing and wants in
World War II worked. What kind of problems did you
have? It worked perfectly. We did not have
problems. We... took people who had never had a
flush toilet and gave them decent housing, and we
completely overcame the argument that such
people would turn the new housing into another
slum. The projects were gardens, and we not only
did good housing, but we did a lot of education. The
Board of Education of L.A., for adult education
for example, required an average daily
attendance, I think, of twelve students, in order
to justify a teacher. And I found out, when I'm
managing these projects, that people would never
come to a school or even the administration
building for a class on, say, housekeeping,
childcare. But the projects were built around
central courtyards, where there'd be about
sixteen families. And I got the Board of Education
to allow a backyard, courtyard scene to be a
classroom. And then all the mothers would come
into a given kitchen to get a teaching lesson on
cooking or sewing or whatnot. We became very, very
much involved in basic education, political
education.
We I moved from the Ramona from the one project
there in Watts. By the way, when the Watts
Rebellion came in 65. I was going to ask you about
that. The only place that didn't burn on 103rd
Street was that project. That's interesting.
There's a more complicated story in that, but I'll
come back to it. I went up the ladder. I moved to the
Ramona Gardens, which is a very, very much larger
project. And I finally became assistant director
of the Housing Authority in charge of the TAF
program in 49, which gave us $110 million to spend.
And I was given the job of selecting the sites and
selling them to the city council. Yeah. At Ramona
Gardens, where we had about a third Hispanic and a
third black, we celebrated both Singletary Mile
and Black History Week. This would be in the 40s,
long before there was any sense of black or
Hispanic consciousness and pride. We were doing
it real, real early. I got Orson Welles and Rita
Hayworth to come to Ramona Gardens to celebrate
Singletary Mile. We had a Jewish and a Mexican and a
black co-chair of Cinco de Mayo. And we tied it all
together with the struggle against slavery in the
States in the sixties. It was all combined
educationally. The projects were beautifully
maintained, and most of us in the work were
committed. We had a zeal. It was not a nine-to-five
job. I finally moved into the project because I
didn't want to be an absentee. I wanted to live
there at night. I wanted my kids to be brought up in
the same place where I was asking other people to
bring up their kids. So my kids were brought up in
these projects in the old slum areas of L.A.
The thing about the Watts jumps your way ahead.
The influence we now know came from the FBI.
They were very conscious of what was happening to
me, and were beginning to maintain surveillance
on me in the projects. We didn't know. We're
getting the documents now. In 1952,
without giving you all the circumstances, the FBI
was able to get me fired from the Housing
Authority. Yeah, we're going to talk about that. I
want to talk about that. Let me just tell you the
build-up on this thing. You see, civil liberties
problems were bad in this country, especially
from 45 to 49
under Truman.
But we had anti-communist oaths after the Smith
Act of 1940. I have an absolutely lousy civil
liberties record. I signed every loyalty oath
they had. I swore I was not a communist. I each year
took a special oath where we brought in the
American Legion to stand with us with a battery of
flags sign or oath that we would never overthrow
the government by force and violence, whatever
the oaths were. But by 1952, I had gone through
changes. I'd watched the Un-American Activities
Committee destroy the motion picture people in
LA, and school teachers, and some knowledge I had
of labor, and I was getting more and more critical
of this idea. And I also was ready to regurgitate,
literally. But once a year I suddenly have to prove
I'm loyal by taking an oath and bringing in the L.A.
Times to take a picture of me, signing, putting up
my hand with the Legionnaires with their funny
little hats. And I
was in an eminent domain for seniors where the FBI
did it. I was in an eminent domain proceeding on the
necessity of taking Chavez Ravine, which is today
the Dodger Ballpark, as the site for the larger
project on the new ten thousand units that we were
building. Thirty-five hundred units. It was
designed by an architect friend that I live with,
Richard Neutra, the most modern, designed to make
it beautiful in those hills above L.A. And I was the
expert. I knew all the correlations between bad
housing and disease and delinquency,
communicable disease, crime, the arguments you
need to prove the necessity of taking private
property for public use. And I'd been through ten
trials in L.A. We won them all. And I was in one in
August of 52.
I'd been on the stand for a day of direct and then a
day of cross-examination. And I knew every block.
I knew the statistic. I was really professionally
qualified to do what I was doing. Suddenly the real
estate lawyers, owners, who were trying to block
our access. They didn't want it taken because they
did not want minorities brought into that part of
L.A. And the restrictive covenant ruling ended up
only coming down in 1947. And they called public
housing socialized housing, creeping
socialism, even though Senator Taft was the
author. All kinds of reasons. And they were
speculating on the land. to turn it into luxury
apartments. And suddenly, in an ever-demanding
proceeding, you've got to understand, hours,
this block, that block, how do you know that? Where
do you get your information on rat infestation and
so on? They suddenly say, now, Mr. Wilkinson,
would you please
tell us all organizations, political or
otherwise, that you belonged to since 1931?
Totally
irrelevant, immaterial question, except that
was the summer of 1952. The Korean War was then in
its second year.
The Hollywood Ten were in jail. Alger Hiss was a bad
guy. The Rosenbergs were due to be executed the
following year. Red hysteria. Really hysteria.
And my lawyer had been a radical, or more radical,
back at UCLA days. In the 30s, probably. And now had
become a Republican. And the Housing Authority,
to protect itself, had hired all Republican law
firms to represent us in the eminent domain
proceeding. So when the question came, he could
only think of me as he knew me. We'd never had any
conversation about what had happened to me since.
And so he thought to challenge the question on
relevancy would be bad public relations. So he
allowed me to answer. And I qualified myself as an
expert witness, where I trained professional
societies I belonged to. But then they pressed me,
and now the political organizations, they didn't
ask me, are you a communist? The political
organizations And at that point, for the first
time I reached that point, I said, I won't answer.
And then my lawyer objected. And then the judge
turned to the lawyer and said his objection was not
timely. And he turned to me and he said, I think you
need a lawyer. And I was suspended.
And suddenly all hell broke loose in L.A. because
we now know that J. Edgar Hoover, working with our
chief of police, Parker, and with real estate
interests, they were all working with Parker, had
developed a dossier on me. We never knew this. And
the dossier had been floating around town, and no
one would touch it. It went to our Republican
mayor, and I was working with him around the clock.
I was five days on one telethon in the Chamber of
Commerce building with the mayor. And they gave
him this dossier. The chief went in to see him. And
he looked at it and tore it up and said, I know this
boy and I trust him. Get out of here. A year after I
was suspended, Fletcher Bowen, this wonderful
Republican mayor who I'd known as a child in my home
My father, you know, my father helped to elect him,
part of a reform against the prostitution and the
gambling interests of L.A.
Two nights before his election in 1953, Chief
Parker, on television, with a member of the
Un-American Activities Committee, Washington,
came in and on television they said, now tell us
about the relationship between Frank Wilkinson
and the mayor, and all this public knowledge was
brought out. And then the dossier was brought out.
The first time I ever knew there was a dossier was
nine months after it had been used. And it was read
on television. I heard my dossier the first time
read on television. It was ridiculous stuff.
Today we laugh at it, but then it was scary. Tell me
some of the stuff. I've been seen talking to a
communist at the corner of 4th and Spring Street in
Los Angeles that I had subscribed to the People's
World newspaper.
Yeah. All right. Was any of it true? I don't know
about the communists at 4th and Spring Street. I
would think it probably was true. And the
subscription to the People's World, yes, it was
true. I subscribed to everything. Yeah, so what?
So what? At any rate, this was read, and then Chief
Parker— In that, were you called a—did it say that
you were a member of the communist power? Nothing
in there said that I was a—the dossier didn't in any
way suggest I had any communist connections. I
just associated with the paper and people who were
communists. See, in the 1940s, communists were
people. They ran for office. They were even part of
our housing council. All right. They then
described, Parker described how he took it to
Bowron, and Bowron tore it up and threw it in the
wastebasket and told him to get out of his office.
and this is all hammed up by the un-American guy.
And they said, really, really, really? That's the
man who's running for mayor tomorrow? All right,
the election, Bowron would have gone in with 80%.
He had a perfect record. He got something like 36%
of the vote. And the new mayor came in, and within
two weeks, turned over Chavez Ravine, where we had
spent $7 million acquiring it. in developing it,
turned it over to Walter O'Malley and the Brooklyn
Dodgers for a ballpark for four million. One
final point here that we'd forget if you just
questioned me. One thing about how I did get
connected with the Un-American Activities
Committee. Yeah, we have to talk about that. My
connection with that was entirely
an accident.
Unknowns to me, during the 40s, the Housing
Authority, under a man named Howard Holsendorf,
the executive director,
had paid protection money to the California State
Un-American Activities Committee. You could buy
protection. A man named Hugh Burns was the state
director, and he was given generous campaign
contributions. And then he kept He
prevented the Un-American Activities Committee
from being attacked. I never knew it. Later I heard
about this.
When I was suspended, there was a move to bring in
the Federal Un-American Activities Committee to
investigate the housing authority.
And because some of the right-wingers in L.A. knew
of Olsendorf's connections with the State
Committee and buying protection, Olsendorf
called upon his friend in the State Committee to
immediately hold a hearing on me to prevent the
Federal Committee from coming in. And more than
that,
to get around the real estate people who were
trying to bring in the Federal Committee to get rid
of not me, but get rid of the Bolsendorf and the
whole gang of them. And for that matter, to attack
the State Committee for taking payoffs to protect
groups.
That I knew nothing about. I had injured my kneecap
in a television program with Mayor Bowen six weeks
before that. of these long televised programs,
first years of television, were showing pictures
of slums and talking about them to an audience. And
he said, Frank, where is that one of the certain
kind he particularly wanted to show? And it was in
my briefcase across the room. And I
hurried away from the camera to my briefcase to get
that picture running back. And when I squatted
down on my knee to get it, I split the cartilage into
my kneecap. It's like football players get every
weekend. You can almost get it with microsurgery
nowadays, you can almost be back playing in six
weeks. It was a little longer then. The housing
authority, not telling me that they were bringing
the Un-American Committee in on me, and yet
feeling knowing i mean i had a marvelous record
everybody i was very popular hundreds and
hundreds of letters coming into the housing
authority to defend me and the headlines for 30
days in l.a were just wild headlines red plot to
rule housing something like that and the housing
authority said while we're working this thing all
out, why don't you get your knee fixed? Because I
was on salary, and I was suspended. So I checked
into the Good Samaritan Hospital, Bolshevik
Boulevard in L.A., same place where Bobby Kennedy
died,
and had surgery. While I'm under sodium
pentothal, this is now told to me by the nurse's
doctor, two federal or state or city police or
marshal, somebody, people with badges, came to
serve a subpoena on me in the hospital.
And they were just told that I'm under surgery.
And they waited outside of the surgery until I
wheeled out in a gurney down a hallway into sort of
have a period where you get recovery room of some
sort. And they followed that in there and followed
the nurses in there and said they wanted to talk to
me as quick as they could. And they said he's
unconscious. And they waited briefly and got
impatient and went in, pushed the nurses aside and
began to touch me on the shoulder and then shake me
And the nurses screamed, and I clearly remember
the screaming voices of the nurses, and something
bright shining in my face, which was the badges of
these FBI police agents, whatever they were. And
they finally gave up. They took a safety pin, one of
the nurses, and pinned the subpoena from UAC on my
surgical gown. When I came out of recovery, I had
been subpoenaed appear before the Un-American
Activities Committee.
I'm
seventy-two now, and I'm traveling all over the
country. Eighty percent of my audiences are under
twenty-five. I'm trying to warn them about the
revival of the new Un-American Activities
Committee called the Senate Judiciary Committee
on Terrorism, the new buzzword. And these
students have no idea what the whole UAC was. I
know. We abolished the Un-American Activities
Committee in 75. That 22 year old student on this
campus was 11. Yeah, I know. And I'm also trying to
warn people that under Reagan's new guidelines
from the FBI, which superseded wonderful
guidelines we got from Gerald Ford, after
Watergate, the FBI was stopped. Gerald Ford did
it. And we had that for six years. Now under
Reagan's guidelines, they put hidden
microphones into undercover agents to go into the
churches Bible study classes in Arizona, in
Tucson. The old trial there, sanctuary movement,
is based upon hidden microphones, intrusive
techniques that Reagan guidelines allow. I'm
warning them about this, and telling the story
about the old FBI. They have no idea about, if you
ask them who J. Ed Gruber was, that is fourteen
years ago. They were then eight. You don't have to
tell me. All right, I'm just telling you a little
bit. I teach recent American history, and when I
do, it's amazing. It's amazing. I teach
McCarthyism and the Red Scare, and when I teach
that, they look at me like I'm from the moon. Right.
They can't believe the stories I hear. By the way, I
have a case. You know I made a First Amendment
challenge in the U.S. for ACLU? out of Georgia in
1958. I served a year. Yeah, I know. I want to get to
that. I want to get to that, but let's go first to
1953, Citizens Committee to Preserve American
Freedoms. All right. But before we do that, I want
to welcome you. Okay. Let's continue. Now let's
talk about the development of the Citizens
Committee to Preserve American Freedoms.
organization founded in Los Angeles in 1952
in response to the repeated hearings in that area
by both the federal and the state on American
Activities Committee doing enormous damage to
every aspect of cultural life in LA. It was founded
by the retired director of of ACNU at that time, but
also a retired minister, Reverend A. A. Heist. And
it was a small group of liberals that did not think
about abolishing these committees, but were
trying to defend the victims. When the hearings
were held from then on, we tried to get the
subpoenaed people together before they fell
apart and began thinking their best friend was an
informer. And help them get cheaper no-cost
lawyers and develop public relations things that
would improve community reaction to a UI hearing
and maybe save jobs. The best example I can give you
is in 1956 when the committee came to L.A. and
subpoenaed 56 members of the Musicians' Union.
There was always a reason. Of course, they claimed
they were investigating a law. What was really
going on is that there had been a Jim Crow local in
Hollywood, and so the prime jobs went to whites.
killed it down, then the black musicians could get
in. And black and white unions, progressive
unions, decided to have one local for all. And they
brought in UAC to kill off the
anti-discrimination group. When that happened,
the Citizens Committee to Preserve American
Freedoms had developed such a reputation.
Citizens were served, we'll say, on a Thursday
morning at 7 a.m.
By that night, we had all 56 subpoenaed people in
our office with an ACLU lawyer and some community
support to talk how we could fight back. The
creativity that comes out of these meetings was
unbelievable. They found they had practically a
full symphony orchestra amongst them except a
piccolo player. They decided the night before the
hearing they'd have a symphony concert made up
entirely of subpoenaed musicians. And they did.
They raised money to take a large hall seating
sixteen hundred people, and they got a visiting
cellist to come in and do a concerto. And they took
out two or three thousand dollars worth of ads in
the LA Times and all the
The ad was a picture of an English horn, and then
they had little Sherlock Holmes characters with
spy glasses going around through the horns of the
values, looking for spies. And the ad was
entitled, Force and Violins, and then come to the
concert. When that thing was over, not one
musician lost their job. Dorothy Chandler, wife
of the editor of the LA Times, the main patron of the
LA Symphony, her four favorite musicians,
including her first oboist or something, were
called. And she defended them all, wouldn't allow
any of them to be fired, because they were just fine
musicians.
That's your question. It was founded in 1952. I was
blacklisted. I guess that's the word. How did you
find out that you were blacklisted? Well, you get
instant notice of that from the public that
afternoon. It was in August of 28. For two months,
the LA Times, Herald, all of them were just filled
with these wild and scary headlines. You would
sometimes be interested in seeing a scrapbook of
two months of headlines. Every day, my picture, my
name, everything was all over the papers. And I
became totally unemployable. The Citizens
Committee was founded in September of 52, but I had
no connection with it. I went until the spring of 53
without any kind of a job.
was called before the committee as a school
teacher. She taught social studies for 13 years in
the LA City school system. Very, very popular,
very successful teacher. And she was fired
because she refused to answer questions of the
committee on the grounds of husband-wife
privilege conversations. It was guilt by me,
through me, that they got her out. So we had no
income coming in. Finally, in June of 53, a
Quaker family in Pasadena that owned a large
department store
called me and met me privately and arranged for me
to be the sole janitor on a three-story department
store that they had, coming in an hour after the
store closed because they didn't think anyone
should see me coming. and I was not to tell anybody
that I was working for them. And they gave me a
dollar an hour from six thirty in the night until
four thirty in the morning to clean three, three
floor hardwood departments. All the showcases,
sixteen toilets, vacuuming, the work. Horrible,
horrible, horrible experience for me. The peak of
my, my job at those When I was fired, my job in
today's money was around $65,000. Yeah. And then
suddenly I'm dead. I was getting a buck an hour to be
a janitor. At that point. Why'd they hire you?
Quaker family. Yeah. Quakers were the best.
Robert Hutchins, Hallert Hoffman, the son of Paul
Geoff, an Eisenhower's
cabinet member. Robert Hutchins of the former
Chicago heard about me and came, they were active
in the AFSC in Pasadena, and they came and helped
me.
The YMCA of Hollywood refused to let my children go
to summer camp that first summer. My Sunday school
superintendent came He was the director of the
YMCA, but he had been my assistant director. My
kids had gone every year for four years or
whatever. He came and said, they've been trying
and trying, and he finally got a compromise. They
let my kids come if my wife and I would not bring them
to the Y on Saturday morning, and if we would not
come up the following Sunday to the campsite in the
mountains for chapel services. And if I'd get a
private doctor to check them over, because the
doctor at the Y said he would not see my kids. At that
point, the Quakers called me and offered me free
family camp.
Very good attitude, the Quakers and Pasadena at
that time. I'm not giving you a card, but I'm just
saying Quakers. Nixon was a Quaker. Anyway,
in the summer of 1953, Reverend Heist and the new
director of ACNU, Easton Monroe,
and two or three other people, members of that
Citizens Committee, came to me and said they
wanted me to become the secretary of the Citizens
Committee to Preserve American to help defend the
victims of UAC. And I turned him down cold. Said
that anything I would touch, I'd destroy. The
committee could never be effective if I were any
way associated with it. And they argued exactly
the opposite.
And took some arguing, because I really felt that.
was only when the ACLU director in this miniature
really said they knew that my organizing skills
would be just wonderful for it. And they also felt
that nobody knows what is a victim of UI, except the
victim of UI. Fight back. So I went to work for them.
And that became my job. Within two years, we turned
it from just the victims to a long-range campaign
to abolish. And by 1960, we
set up a national committee to abolish. And in
1958,
my reputation, the committee's reputation, but
my personal reputation of being able to go into any
town
and organized subpoenaed people into a fight
back. Became nationally known. I was flying to
Chicago, flying to Boston, flying to San
Francisco, Gary, Indiana, and 20 I got a call to
come down to Atlanta. I'd never been in the South.
And I went down there to circulate a petition among
church people, not to abolish UAC, but to keep it
out of the South. arguing that it was hard enough to
have dialogue between black and white without
having one side labeled a communist. Sure. Long
answer, that's the answer. That committee lasted
up until we formed the National Committee to
Avalanche Your Act. And is that when, when you went
to Atlanta, is that when you were cited for
contempt of court? August of 58. It was at that
time, we never knew how it happened. I did not know I
was going down to Atlanta until the day before. Got
a telegram, meet people in Atlanta, worked with
Martin Luther King Sr. and others. And I made a
plane reservation, flew down, and it had been a
minute after I checked into the hotel where they
told me to come. I was subpoenaed to appear before
UI. We thought it was just the Un-American
Activities Committee following me, following
everybody, everywhere. And we learned just this
last year that they had me under, they had eight
agents following me from seven in the morning till
ten at night, all my conversations wiretapped,
everything. They knew everything about where I
was going, what I was doing, and were trying to
disrupt my work. The real disruption didn't begin
until the early 60s. The COINTELPRO of FBI didn't
begin until 56. In Georgia, it was 58. At any rate, I
made a—ACID wanted a witness. They'd been trying
for five years to get somebody who would not claim
the privilege of the Fifth Amendment to make a
First Amendment challenge. And I had been
looking. No one was willing to do it because I was
almost sure to go to jail. we all felt that somebody
should do it. As a matter of conscience, we wanted
the issue raised. And there were some inklings in
the dicta of some of the Warren Court decisions
that implied that they might consider taking on
the Un-American Activities Committee on First
Amendment grounds.
Go ahead. And so you were subpoenaed in front of
HUAC. Now, originally, you were down there to help
with the beginnings of the civil rights program,
correct?
First time I ever went to Georgia, first time I ever
went to the South, was when I came down in July of 58
and was subpoenaed. The civil rights thing in
Montgomery had begun in 54. Yeah, right. From then
on, I became involved in the Civil Rights program
in the South, but all in connection with the
way the Un-American Activities Committee was
being used as a bulwark for segregation. Right,
right. Martin King,
there's a picture of us together there, that's at
Morehouse College. After the court decision came
down and we'd exhausted our appeals and we were
going to jail, he and Coretta King had a reception
for Carl and me at Morehouse College the night
before we went to jail. And 400 black leaders were
sat out there to honor us as we went to jail. And
I don't think I've ever seen the newspaper
clipping on it. because I went right into jail. But
his statement was extremely important
historically. He said that we're honoring these
men. He said, these men are going to jail for us.
We will never achieve peaceable integration in
the South until the Un-American Activities
Committee has been abolished. And then we went on
to jail. When
I was in jail, he and Reinhold Niebuhr and others
started a petition for clemency to get us out,
which Kennedy denied while we were in. On what
grounds?
Kennedy was no good.
The Secretary of the World Council of Churches
Chicago was his name, took this petition,
launched by Martin Luther King, Jr., Reinhold
Niebuhr, A.J. Muste, Dean John Bennett, Union
Theological Seminary, really top, top people.
Howard Schomer, S-C-H-O-M-E-R, your record will
be the first time it's accurate. He was secretary
of the World Council of Churches. He was on his way
to New Delhi for a World Church Conference. He
delayed it to deliver these 3,500 names to
President Kennedy. And when he went down there to
see him, Kennedy would not even meet the
delegation, turned it over to his pardon
attorney, who immediately rejected it. And of
course, we now know the records, you see. The
moment I went into jail, The FBI's whole apparatus
on me went into prison with me. They just sent me,
two months ago, every letter that I wrote and every
letter I received while I was in prison. These were
all part of the file. They had surveillance on me.
And we were moved around from prison to prison to
prison as terrible harassment as political
prisoners.
The pressure on the Kennedys, Bobby and Jack, from
the FBI was enormous there. Why do you think that
was? I think Hoover, first of all, Hoover had no
real mandate to do what he was doing. It was just
something sort of an accretion, a collection of
power given to him at the budget hearings each
year, beginning with Harlan Stone back in 1924
through Roosevelt.
And Hoover had adverse information on the sex and
the financial,
every kind of dealing that would either be
illegal, or corrupt, or immoral, or bad PR. He had
it on them all. When I, the decision came down in the
60th term of the court, beginning of 58, take your
time, February 28th, my attorneys, Roland Watts,
the National ACNU, and Nanette Dembitz, who was
The niece of Justice Brandeis, who was writing the
briefs on my case, they filed appeal after appeal
to delay my jailing as long as they could.